So now that we've talked
about the applyAllItr method
and showed how that
is implemented,
let's go ahead and
turn our attention
to a another way of implementing
the Fork-Join pool programming
abstraction.
And this is something
we're going to call
the applyAllSplit method.
This particular approach has the
same behavior as applyAllItr.
Basically what
it's going to do is
it's going to apply
an op function
to all items in a list.
Except this time
instead of doing
this sort of iterative approach
where we throw everything
into one deck in a
worker pool and then let
other threads steal, we're
going to recursively split up
the input by using
recursive decomposition.
So let's take a look
and see how this works.
So to make this
work, we're going
to have to define a nested
class called SplitterTask.
And as you can see, SplitterTask
is a recursive task that
is going to be parameterized
with a list of T.
And the way that SplitterTask
will work, as you see here,
shortly, is it will
recursively partition the list
and run each half
in a fork-join task.
This use case I'm about
to show you is just
the cat's pajamas,
or the bee's knees,
or whatever you like to say.
It's an ideal application
of the fork-join framework.
And we'll talk
about how to make it
even better in our next lesson.
What we do here is
we create ourselves
a new SplitterTask passing
in the entire initial list.
And this new SplitterTask will
start with the entire list,
and then will split
it up recursively.
As you can see, we're going
to go ahead and pass this
to the Invoke method on
ForkJoinPool, which, again,
as we've talked about before,
has the property that it goes
ahead and takes this
SplitterTask, which
is a fork-join task, from
a non-ForkJoin client,
and then invokes it
in the ForkJoinPool.
And then blocks and waits until
the computations are done.
Let's take a look at how
SplitterTask is defined.
And I'll break this up
into a couple parts,
because it would otherwise
overrun the screen.
So you can see here that
the SplitterTask extends
recursive task,
and the purpose is
to split the list evenly in
half, and then copy the data,
and then go ahead
and fork to work
on the half with
the copied data.
There's a field that's
defined in SplitterTask
which is called mList.
And this is going to store
a reference to a portion
of the original list.
So we're going to basically use
this thing recursively to keep
splitting the list
up piece by piece
until we end up
with list items that
are only one element in length.
And then we're going to
process those sequentially.
But before we get
to that point, let's
just look at the constructor,
which just stashes away
the list parameter that we're
passed, which will initially
be the entire list,
but then after that
will be the sublists.
Here's the compute method.
And again, we'll kind of break
this up into a couple parts.
So compute is going
to recursively perform
the computations in parallel
on a subset of the list.
So as you can see
here, what we do
is-- remember how we always
talk about recursive task
and recursive action?
They first check to
see, is the elements--
or are the elements
small enough that we
can do things sequentially?
And if the answer is yes,
we go ahead and do that.
So you can basically think
of this if statement here
as handling the base
case for the recursion.
This is the thing that will
cause the recursion to bottom
out.
And it'll bottom out if
the list size is less than
or equal to 1.
It should be equal
to 1 unless there's
something weird going on.
But we just did less than 1,
less than or equal to 1 just
to be safe.
So if we have a list
with an element in it,
we go ahead and
make a new result
item, which is an array list.
And then we go
ahead and we iterate
through the mList,
which really should just
have one item at this point.
And we go ahead and we apply
the function on that item.
And when we're done with that,
when that computation finishes,
when we finish reducing and
multiplying the big fraction,
we then add the result
to the result list.
And then the last thing we do
is we return the result list.
So we're really returning
a list with one item in it.
That's what we need as the
base case for the recursion.
Here's the other part of
the recursive algorithm.
This is the part where we
don't have an item that's
only got one element in it.
Instead, we have a list that
is more than one element long.
So what we do now is we figure
out the midpoint of the list,
because, of course, our
goal with any kind of divide
and conquer
fork-join style model
is to try to break things
evenly and efficiently.
So we figure out the
midpoint of the list,
which is just the size
of the list divided by 2.
And then we go ahead
and we create a sublist.
And this is going to
be the left-hand side.
And the left-hand
side of the sublist
is going to start
from the beginning
of the list to the midpoint
that we just computed.
And we're going to make
ourselves a new sublist.
And we're going to go ahead and
pass that into the constructor
SplitterTask.
And then we're going to go
ahead and fork that new object.
And we're going to
fork that object.
And we're going to store it
in a ForkJoinTask variable we
call lt for left task.
OK.
So now we've gone
ahead and basically
arranged to execute this
SplitterTask on some thread
in the worker pool.
And we've given
it half the list--
the left-hand side of
the list to process.
What we do then is we
take the current list,
because this is our list, the
right-hand side, if you will,
and we go ahead and we
update it in place--
or actually, we
create a new list,
and update the old list to be
a sublist from the midpoint
to the end of the list.
So that's the right-hand
side of the list.
So we take the right-hand
We overwrite the
original reference.
And then we go ahead
and we say, hey,
please compute the algorithm
for this right-hand side
that we've just updated.
And I should
probably also mention
on the previous approach
where we fork off
the new left-hand
side, this approach
will disperse the task
to other worker threads.
When we fork this,
it's undoubtedly--
it'll go to our queue, but that
will be stolen very quickly.
What we do here is we stay
in our current thread.
And we go ahead and
we update the list
to just have the
right-hand side.
And then we call
the compute method.
And note that this
is a call to compute,
which is in the same thread
as we were in before,
except we're going to call
ourselves recursively.
So compute will run in the
same task as its parent
in order to minimize
context switching.
There's really no need to create
yet another task by forking it.
We're just going to stay
in this particular task.
Now, while we're running
compute in this task,
undoubtedly, another
thread has stolen the task
that we forked shortly
before we computed.
And those things will then
start running in parallel.
What we do now when
compute returns
for our task, the
current task, is we go
and we say, hey,
left-hand task, I'd
like to join with you to
get your result, which will,
of course, come back as a list.
And the join call
will either return
right away if the other
tasks that we forked is done,
or it will block, logically,
until that task has finished.
And remember, when it blocks,
it pitches in and will
do other task processing.
It's very important to
remember that compute
must be called before
join, because we
want to do our work
before we try to join
with the left-hand side.
Otherwise, we will
completely defeat the point
of doing parallel processing.
When join returns, we now
have the right-hand result,
which we got from
the call to compute,
and we have the left-hand
result, which we got from join,
and then we go ahead and we
add those back together again.
So now we have a
single joined result,
which we stick into left result,
just because it makes sense
to concatenate it like that.
There's no need to make a copy.
And we'll end up going
ahead and combining
the left-hand side and
the right-hand side
and returning the results.
Now, the data might
actually be copied here
since the lists are
implemented as an ArrayList.
But if we were smart,
we could always
make the ArrayList be
big enough to compensate
for any size we needed to have.
That's left as an
exercise for you
to figure out how to
do that optimization.
Now, I think you'll agree that
this implementation is harder
to program, and it's also
harder to understand,
because it's
inherently recursive.
But as we'll see, it's
also a lot more efficient.
So let's take a few minutes
to visualize this approach.
So in this model,
the invoke method,
once again, sticks
a ForkJoinTask
into the shared queue
in the ForkJoinPool.
And the invoke method lets
the non-ForkJoinTask client
insert that task.
Then at this point, the subtasks
will be recursively decomposed
onto the worker
threads in the pool.
And that's because we're going
to do these things recursively.
And so unlike the
approach that we
had that was the
applyAllItr approach, which
stuck everything into
one worker thread's deck,
this will more evenly
distribute the subtasks
into the decks of multiple
threads in the pool.
So as a consequence, the
work stealing overhead
will be much lower, but
the copying and memory call
overhead will be a bit higher,
because we have to copy data
when we do these sublist calls.
As before, forking and
computing will run in parallel.
And as I mentioned, it's
usually a good practice
to do compute on the right-hand
side in the same task
as the parent in
order to optimize
performance and minimize the
amount of context switching
that's going on.
Join will return a result.
As you can see here,
there's a nice balance
tree of join calls.
And that's going to scale a
lot better than the applyAllItr
call, where everything
had to get factored back
or filtered back
into a single thread
to wait for
everything to finish.
So this will allow
things to join
in parallel, which will be
a lot faster, as we'll see.